v1.5.0 release notes (#6494)
spiceai/spiceai: docs/release_notes/v1.5.0.md

# Spice v1.5.0 (July 21, 2025)

Spice v1.5.0 brings major upgrades to search and retrieval. It introduces native support for Amazon S3 Vectors, enabling petabyte scale vector search directly from S3 vector buckets, alongside SQL-integrated vector and tantivy-powered full-text search, partitioning for DuckDB acceleration, and automated refreshes for search indexes and views. It includes the AWS Bedrock Embeddings Model Provider, the Oracle Database connector, and the now-stable Spice.ai Cloud Data Connector, and the upgrade to DuckDB v1.3.2.

## What's New in v1.5.0

> **Amazon S3 Vectors Support**: Spice.ai now integrates with [Amazon S3 Vectors](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/features/vectors/), launched in public preview on July 15, 2025, enabling vector-native object storage with built-in indexing and querying. This integration supports semantic search, recommendation systems, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) at petabyte scale with S3’s durability and elasticity. Spice.ai manages the vector lifecycle—ingesting data, embedding it with models like Amazon Titan or Cohere via AWS Bedrock, or MiniLM L6 available from HuggingFace, and storing it in S3 Vector buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Amazon S3 Vectors Support**: Spice.ai now integrates with [Amazon S3 Vectors](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/features/vectors/), launched in public preview on July 15, 2025, enabling vector-native object storage with built-in indexing and querying. This integration supports semantic search, recommendation systems, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) at petabyte scale with S3’s durability and elasticity. Spice.ai manages the vector lifecycle—ingesting data, creating embeddings with models like Amazon Titan or Cohere via AWS Bedrock, or others available on HuggingFace, and storing it in S3 Vector buckets.
```

Example Spicepod.yml configuration for S3 Vectors:

```yaml
datasets:

>   - from: s3://my_vector_bucket/data/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - from: s3://my_data_bucket/data/
```

Since an S3 vector bucket is now a concept, I don't want to confuse users into thinking they put that here.

Example Spicepod.yml configuration for S3 Vectors:

```yaml
datasets:
  - from: s3://my_data_bucket/data/
    name: my_vectors
    params:
      file_format: parquet
    acceleration:
      enabled: true
    vectors:
      engine: s3_vectors
      params:
        s3_vectors_aws_region: us-east-2
        s3_vectors_bucket: my-s3-vectors-bucket
    columns:
      - name: content
        embeddings:
          - from: bedrock_titan
            row_id:
              - id
```

Example SQL query using S3 Vectors:

```sql
SELECT *
FROM vector_search(my_vectors, 'Cricket bats', 10)
WHERE price < 100
ORDER BY score
```

> For more details, refer to the [S3 Vectors Documentation](https://github.com/spiceai/docs/blob/release/1.5/website/docs/components/vectors/s3_vectors.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, refer to the [S3 Vectors Documentation](https://spiceai.org/docs/components/vectors/s3_vectors).
```
